Here's just a sampling of the many data types that SQL supports. We won't be using most of these types in this course, though.

The exact list of types differs from one database to another. For a full list of types, check the manual for your database, such as this one for PostgreSQL.

Text and string types
text — a string of any length, like Python str or unicode types.
char(n) — a string of exactly n characters.
varchar(n) — a string of up to n characters.

Numeric types
integer — an integer value, like Python int.
real — a floating-point value, like Python float. Accurate up to six decimal places.
double precision — a higher-precision floating-point value. Accurate up to 15 decimal places.
decimal — an exact decimal value.

Date and time types
date — a calendar date; including year, month, and day.
time — a time of day.
timestamp — a date and time together.


Examples:

Reference
For reference, here's a list of all the tables in the zoo database:

animals
This table lists individual animals in the zoo. Each animal has only one row. There may be multiple animals with the same name, or even multiple animals with the same name and species.
name — the animal's name (example: 'George')
species — the animal's species (example: 'gorilla')
birthdate — the animal's date of birth (example: '1998-05-18')
diet
This table matches up species with the foods they eat. Every species in the zoo eats at least one sort of food, and many eat more than one. If a species eats more than one food, there will be more than one row for that species.
species — the name of a species (example: 'hyena')
food — the name of a food that species eats (example: 'meat')
taxonomy
This table gives the (partial) biological taxonomic names for each species in the zoo. It can be used to find which species are more closely related to each other evolutionarily.
name — the common name of the species (e.g. 'jackal')
species — the taxonomic species name (e.g. 'aureus')
genus — the taxonomic genus name (e.g. 'Canis')
family — the taxonomic family name (e.g. 'Canidae')
t_order — the taxonomic order name (e.g. 'Carnivora')
If you've never heard of this classification, don't worry about it; the details won't be necessary for this course. But if you're curious, Wikipedia articles Taxonomy and Biological classification may help.

ordernames
This table gives the common names for each of the taxonomic orders in the taxonomy table.
t_order — the taxonomic order name (e.g. 'Cetacea')
name — the common name (e.g. 'whales and dolphins')
The SQL for it
And here are the SQL commands that were used to create those tables. We won't cover the create table command until lesson 4, but it may be interesting to look at:

create table animals (
       name text,
       species text,
       birthdate date);

create table diet (
       species text,
       food text);

create table taxonomy (
       name text,
       species text,
       genus text,
       family text,
       t_order text);

create table ordernames (
       t_order text,
       name text);
Remember: In SQL, we always put string and date values inside single quotes
